High.
So in this video I just want to talk about strings.
So that's the kind of the last highlight for now that I'm going to do on Python 3 6 and strings is just
short for formatted string literals and it has to do with string interpolation and if you want more
details really go and read Pepp 498 that kind of gives you all the detail that you'd want to know about
this.
But it's really cool.
So just as a reminder we use the Format function we can also use the old style P.C. sign to do the string
formatting but I don't use that I just use the format.
So what do I mean.
Well let's say I've got this let's say I want to write some numbers model some number.
So here I'm just using these kind of positional things right.
So I'm not providing a numerical value in here.
It's just going to be kind of first come first served.
And what am I going to pass in.
Well now I have to make sure I have the sequence right so I'm going to say I'm going to take 10 maade
3 is 10 Mode 3.
OK.
So what happens here is that we see 10 Mach 3 equals 1.
So that's great.
Now we can also use a slightly different style.
We can say zero.
And here what I'm going to do I'm going to mix it up actually.
Let me start with one model.
Two equals zero.
OK.
So it's going to use now the positional arguments that I put into format.
So the first thing I want I want the 0 to correspond to 10 month 3.
So I would put 10 montri here and then I want the the item at index 1 to be this number here.
So it's going to be 10 and then three.
OK.
So we get the same thing.
What we can do it this way if we use these positional numbers that corresponds to the positions of the
arguments that we pass to format and then the other way to do it is to do using names.
So we can say a model B equals mod K and then Q.
Now we just have to pass keyword arguments so we'd say April 10.
And again we don't have to keep the all the same it doesn't matter because not using keywords so we'd
say 10 mod 3 and B are equals 3.
And again we get exactly the same output.
So that's great but you'll notice that there's a bit of typing to do right especially here with the
names are go to put a an A and B and B in modern mode.
So here's the idea behind estranges is that f strings look the same as these but we prefix them with
an F and let's go ahead and create two variables.
These are global variables.
They're in my module and now I'm going to create an F string.
So I just prefix it with F and you can use capital F as well.
Doesn't matter.
Both will work and I'm going to say a nod B.
Now what is a and b here.
A is going to actually be this a over here.
It's good to find it in the global scope and same thing with B.
So that's what I mean by string interpellation is that we get this we get 10 month threes so that's
pretty cool.
But furthermore we can also now embed expressions.
So now I could actually write the expression a mob and we get that.
So basically in F strings you can use expressions and you can reference variables inside your string
which Python will then top elite K and it also uses all the existing string formatting options.
So for example let's say I have 8 equals 10 divided by three.
OK so what you can do here is you can say f a.
I'm going to take a and I'm going to do five digits after the decimal point.
OK.
And so we get that.
Now of course I didn't even have to do that.
I could have written it this way.
So we'll say 10 divided by three 0.5 f actually just yet.
And we get that.
So this is pretty cool.
And it's more compact.
I mean let's say that we have something like name equals Python.
OK.
And we want to print out Python rocks.
Well all we need to do is just to say name rocks.
Ok that's all we have to do.
The old style using format you'd have to say something like this if you wanted to use a variable name
rocks.
Now of course with the format it's not going to see this as a variable in the outer scope in the enclosing
scope.
It's going to look for it as a keyword parameter in here.
So I'd have to say name equals name OK because this name here refers to the name and my out of scope.
This is the name of the argument and then that gets passed into the string here and gets interpretated.
So you'll see in order to do this I had to use name really just you know one time in the you know in
the string here I had to use it 1 2 3 times.
So this is a lot more concise a lot more readable.
So that's pretty cool.
Now what about let's say closures.
Let's see how this works with closures.
So let's go ahead and define an outer function and let's say that name equals Python kept so we have
this closure here.
And I'm going to.
And really what I want to see here is the scope.
Right.
What are the kind of the scope rules for this f string.
Is it going to look in the outer containing scopes or is it just limited to maybe picking up Global's
or just local's what's going to happen.
So here I'm just going to say return F and I'm going to reference name rocks.
Now you'll notice I did not say non-local
name in order to force it and to basically get a reference to name from the outer scope
I'm just reading the value and I'm hoping this is going to work that this is actually going to see it
and say OK I need to look in the outer scope is going to look in the outer functions are variables.
It's going to find name in there and in is now going to become a closure.
And now I'm going to return dinner.
OK.
So pretty simple closure.
And now let's go ahead and print.
I'm going to call our outer is going to return what it's going to return that enclosure so I need to
call the closer again because I want to see what it returns and if it actually works and yet it does.
So this is actually pretty cool because the string interpellation here has this variable name and it's
able to actually go back out and pick it up from the out of function and hence turning it into a closure.
So that's the Python really rocks.
I can see some abuses.
And let let's let's see some some abuses on this.
Let's say we have this Lamda let's create a lambda expression that just returns the square of a value
and I go to spell it right.
OK.
And let's go ahead and make.
Able to turn and be equal to 1.
So I could do something like this.
I could say.
Let me separate this in print.
I'm going to use an F string and I'm going to print what I'm going to print the square of PE and that's
fine.
That's OK it's OK to do that I think.
But now I'm going to put up TONRY expression and to say if B is greater than five.
Else.
Print a K and then I can say be equals 10 and I'm going to just copy the same code again.
And what do we get.
Well we get 10 and 100.
So this is kind of getting convoluted.
I you know I can see where we're going to run into trouble with people trying to do things like this
we really shouldn't be putting a you know expressions like this in the print.
Maybe you know but I guess you could even make it worse.
Let's try this let's say equals 10 B equals 1.
Y to the lambda outside of the print function.
I mean it's supposed to be able to evaluate expressions.
Right.
So let's let's give it a shot.
Let's create a lambda X that returns x squared.
Now I need to evaluate that expression for some going to put into parentheses once it's been evaluate
it's going to be a function it's an anonymous function.
I'm going to call it an A and I'm going to keep my.
If B is greater than 5 else a.
I wonder if that's going to work.
OK so here's what we have.
Now that's easy to understand right.
When you run across this kind of code and yeah that was it.
OK so now let's try it and let's just change the value of b to make it 10.
And indeed we get the same thing yeah.
Lord help us if people start doing this kind of stuff.
It's going to get worse.
All right.
So anyways the F strings really really useful just don't abuse them OK.
Like anything else in Python.
Don't abuse it and make your code unreadable because it's going to look like they're junk.
All right.
Thanks for watching.